Search import (#149)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/search/views/index.md

---

> sidebar_position: 1

Reviewer: Two digits

title: Views

> slug: views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

> We provide *Views* that enable you to perform fast and sophisticated full-text search queries for unstructured data in documents across multiple linked collections. You can filter by document attributes, sort the results by relevance, and rank results by their similarity using popular scoring algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Macrometa provides _views_ that enable you to perform fast and sophisticated full-text search queries for unstructured data in documents across multiple linked collections. You can filter by document attributes, sort the results by relevance, and rank results by their similarity using popular scoring algorithms.
```

Each View represents an inverted index that contains the search configuration and all document attributes in the linked collections. A Search View index consists of multiple segments that are each treated as a standalone index. Search Views are the only officially supported Views implementation, but you can create your own Search Views to further customize the way index and query data.

The following table shows a comparison between C8Search Views and a full-text index:

> 

Reviewer: Only one line between paragraphs.

The document vectors that are closer to a query vector are more relevant. The closeness is expressed as the cosine of the angle between two vectors ([cosine similarity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosine_similarity)). We evaluate the following expression to define how relevant document `d` is to query `q`:

`cos a = (d * q) / (|d| * |q|)`

* `d * q` is the dot product of the query vector `q` and document vector `d`
* `|d|` is the norm of vector `d`
* `|q|` is the norm of vector `q`

The vector components must be computed up front. Since space is formed by terms, you can use *term weights* as coordinates. The following probability and statistical weighting models are implemented in C8Search:

* [Okapi BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25)
* [TF-IDF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf)

Both models rely on two components:

> * *Term frequency* (TF): The number of times term `t` appears in document `d`.

Reviewer: Use underscores for italics, not asterisks. Also, this term should be bold, not italic. Same for the next one.

Reviewer: Also, use hyphens rather than asterisks for the bullets. If you are using markdownlint, you should be able to change them all at once. (Highly recommend!)

* *Inverse document frequency* (IDF): How common or rare the term is across all documents.

Searching and ranking capabilities are provided by the [IResearch library](https://github.com/iresearch-toolkit/iresearch)

> ## Integration

Reviewer: In the Jira ticket I mentioned above, please add breaking up this topic. We have a bunch of different subjects and types of information in this index, could probably be chunked a bit more finely. Does not need to happen right now, though.

You can link documents and edge collections to Search Views so your graphs can be treated as both flat and interconnected data structures. For example, you can find the most relevant vertices by searching and sorting with a View, then perform a regular tree search on each vertex.

Edit the [View definition](#view-definition) to manage links between Views and collections. You can index any attribute at any depth, including nested attributes, and define Analyzers to process values for each field. To produce results, Analyzers you specify in the query must be defined in the View.

By default, array elements are indexed individually as if each element is the value of the source attribute. You can use Analyzers to transform strings into multiple tokens that are handled similarly to an array of strings. Refer to [C8QL SEARCH operation](../c8ql/operations/search.md) for details. Primitive values other than strings (`null`, `true`, `false`, numbers) are indexed unchanged. You can choose to index nested object values under the respective attribute path, including objects in arrays.

> You can manage Views by using:

Reviewer: In an ideal world, all three of these, plus the CLI, should have instructions in the task.
